I'll be making all of the code sandboxes
that I demonstrated and more available in
the repository, the Frontend
Masters XState Workshop repository,
and they're going to be made available
in the XState documentation.
If you go to examples,
you're going to see a lot of examples such
as to do MVC with both react and view.
As well as a calculator, and if you've
ever tried to program a calculator like
the classic ones where you have buttons
that you push, you're going to realize
that it's a lot harder than it seems
because you have to handle edge cases
such as what if they press the plus
sign before they press any numbers?
What if they press minus twice?
What if they divide by zero?
What if they do things out of order?
What if they do five plus clear?
What is the behavior there?
And so that's why modeling
a calculator as a state chart
is a really useful technique to
really organize your states and
prevents those impossible states and
transitions and edge cases from happening.
So there's also a variety
of tutorials here.
This Reddit API tutorial is
taken from the Redux docs,
except it's implemented
with actors instead of
how Redux does it where it just
keeps it in the same object and
doing that makes it a lot more performant
because now every single state update that
happens in one of those actors
doesn't directly affect the parents
unless that child actor directly
sends an event over to the parents.
So, just to quickly go over that, there's
a section here called Using Actors.
And so the way that this works is
we're going to spawn an actor for
each one of these subreddits such
as react, view, and frontend.
And so what each of these does is
each of these actors has its own
responsibility of loading
that subreddit data.
And then once it gets that data, it
sends a message right back to the reddit
parents machine that says, hey,
I have the data, here you go.
And so, instead of using invoke,
this uses spawn to do that.
So you could consider spawn
to be very similar to invoke.
With spawn,
you give it the source that you want and
you assign that directly in context.
So you're using a sign like normal,
but instead of it being
just a normal object or an array, now this
is a live actor that you could talk to.
And so the only difference between
spawn and invoke is that invoked actors
are immediately stopped whenever you
exit the states and spawned actors,
since they could be spawned at any
time due to some events happening,
they are alive for an indefinite period
of time until the machine is stopped.
So if the parent machine is stopped,
it's going to stop all those actors
inside as well, so it doesn't have as
well a defined life cycle as invoke.
And so that's why I say,
always prefer invoke over spawn.
Spawn is more for
a dynamic number of actors that you might
want to spawn, and invoke is for
you want a single actor or
a set number of actors that are active
only within a specific state.